you
Tell Miss Hills the city now presents a
complex traffic problem because most of
its long street car lines must funnel into
Market Street. This is true because there
are no streets parallel to Market on the
north side. As the city grows, the Market
Street bottleneck draws tighter and
tighter. Unless relief is found, this
condition will seriously hamper the city's
growth and progress.
Market Street as it looks today from a
balcony at Fifth Street. This, as you all
know, is just an an average crowd trying
to find a way to get home. From the
balcony, the cable car turns on Powell
Street. The cable car is a San Francisco
invention, and our visitors never quit
talking about it. We'll probably always
have at least one cable car route here,
just as a tourist attraction.
We all ride to work, but how we have to
work to ride. Here's a rush hour example.
People stand in safety zones hoping the
inspector will find room for them up
front. But the space is all taken and
disappointed patrons are turned away.
Here's why. Too many cars are on the
outside tracks owned by the municipal
railway. The The inside tracks owned by
Market Street Railway are not used to
capacity. If these two systems are
consolidated, the traffic burden will be
equally distributed so that everybody can
ride. One fare anywhere will do the trick.
The unequal burden causes this,
inconvenient, dangerous, and entirely
unnecessary. When Madame Chiang Kai-shek
was here, the traffic burden everywhere
was too great under three systems, three
managements, and three fares. We'll all
agree this is a beautiful scene, but the
discomfort and inconvenience are there
just the same. We can correct this
situation with one management, one fare
anywhere, and free transfers everywhere.
This serious bottleneck at Stockton and
Market Streets can be broken. Instead of
turning F cars back here, let's send them
across Market Street to the Southern
Pacific Depot, giving a new cross-town
service to the Marina, North Beach, and
Chinatown. Let's speed up this overloaded
line. Let's give the Mission District
direct access to north of Market sections.
No mother likes this kind of a situation
involving school children. We spend
millions for schoolroom education. Let's
spend something on traffic and safety.
What are we doing for our war workers?
These tired men coming off shift need
speedy service home for a well-earned
rest.
Instead, they keep right on working,
working as you do for a place on an
overcrowded bus or streetcar and often
payment of two fares before they reach
home. These are not shoppers waiting for
rationed meat, these are war plant workers
waiting in line for a chance to ride home.
They deserve that chance and you deserve
that chance. Think of the thousands of
hours we lose daily by transportation
delays. Think of the ships and bombers
that might have been built with this lost
time. We can't afford it. We need those
ships and bombers.
Scores of streetcars now lie unused in car
barns and shops. All these can be put to
work on idle track space on Market and
Mission streets. Let's use them.
Under one management and with one fare
anywhere, these idle cars can carry 20,000
more people every day during the rush
hours alone. It came like this and better.
New, noiseless, speedy, streamlined cars.
Fast, modern motor coaches taking the
places of street cars wherever possible.
Only in this way can San Francisco get rid
of two of the four tracks on Market
Street. You would like that, wouldn't you?
These are hopes for the future. They are
more than hopes, they are necessities. if
the city we all love is not to strangle
from its congestions and bottlenecks.
Let's take the necessary step Tuesday,
April 20th. Let's consolidate the existing
systems without one cent of cost to
taxpayers. The entire bill will be paid
from revenues now swollen because there
are so many newcomers here. This is the
city that knows how, and here's how. Now
vote yes on Tuesday for better service at
no added cost. Let's forget our pet peeves
and our prejudices. Let's think of the
needs of our city and our country. Let's
do something for San Francisco. Are you
listening, San Francisco? This is the
message of the Citizens Committee for
Better Streetcar Service. We're voting yes
for your future on Tuesday.
And all along the way
We're building a dream for tomorrow We're
building a dream for tomorrow Where trains
that cross the hills and land Go through
the town by night and day And sunshine
touches every hand In parks where children
play Over the hills and all along the way
We're building a dream for tomorrow We're
building a dream for tomorrow We're
building a dream for tomorrow
Along the way, in three counties, BART is
building a high-speed rail rapid transit
system planned for your convenience,
designed for your comfort, and
deliberately aimed at giving you a safer,
faster, more economical ride than your
automobile. Fully aware, as Lewis Mumford
says, that a city exists not for the
constant passage of motor cars, but for
the care and culture of men. Cities will
maintain their character, too. unscarred
by heavy concrete swaths of freeway,
freeways that carry the extravagance of
one car, one passenger, mostly at a
standstill. Instead, bark trains carrying
thousands of comfortably seated passengers
will glide quietly through the bay tube,
under the ferry building, and into the
Market Street subway.
And when it's completed, you and the Bay
Area will not only feel better, you'll
both look better. In the Powell Street
Station you'll look something like this.
Along the way you may stop at a magazine
stand, buy commute tickets from the
automatic vending machine, enjoy the
clean, spacious, architect-designed
station, and then you'll board a train,
carpet it, air-conditioned, and settle
into an extra-wide foam rubber seat. Over
the hills and all along the way we're
building a dream for tomorrow. We're
building a dream for tomorrow.
Our commuters get one of the most exciting
rides in the world. And boy, what a view!
Ah, there's that spice and coffee smell
again.
One of the busiest intercity transit lines
in the world safely delivers another
trainload to the busiest terminal in
America.
you
The Golden Thames Society I know I live
there on the tower. Seagulls, pigeons, but
I like it. Yeah, we dig it the most. On
the tower I can see everything. Once in a
while I spy.
I see the shoes. They think they're the
toughest, but not the bosses. But I don't
blame them. Nothing to do If I had
something like that on my corner I'd
shimmy shimmy Cocoa too The mole You can
always tell Flat feet Ace on every corner
Don't look too hard fellas They got guns
You got a thousand fellas The king In this
tough sheen It's the bosses Because it's
borrowed written from some honor at night
can always tell that's the lonely one
bet you some parts of mission could always
tell thousand every corner hair was a
crime they'd be right on death row with
chestnut look
out old man And look out, old man. Mike is
on the scene. Head first. Fight up,
fellas. Didn't cost me anything. Five
fingers and a quick getaway. Some store
suffers.
you
San Francisco, within its 45 square miles,
is contained one of the most colorful and
and romantic cities in the world.
Approaching from the south, the traveler
views with sudden excitement the city
thrusting its white towers into the blue
California sky.
But it is from the east that the city
reveals its famous profile, framed by the
silver towers of the Bay Bridge.
Credited with having stopped the onslaught
of the 1906 fire, Venice Avenue still
remains one of San Francisco's broadest
thoroughfares.
California Palace of the Legion of Honor,
one of San Francisco's finest museums is
an exact replica of the Legion of Honor in
Paris.
The once gay resort of the 90s is now a
modern restaurant fronting the Pacific
Ocean and overlooking Seals Rocks.
A ride on the newly installed Sky Tram
should be included in the tourist
itinerary.
Just below the Cliff House is a year-round
amusement park. Park.
Leaving the recreational areas that border
the ocean, we turn eastward towards the
heart of the city.
city. In the center of the city rise San
Francisco's famous Twin Peaks.
reached by a spiraling road the summit
commands a spectacular view of the
encircling city
Market Street, the main arterial through
the downtown area, stretches like a broad
ribbon from Twin Peaks to the Ferry
Building.
The busy intersection of Powell and Market
Streets in downtown San Francisco is
located one of the terminals of the Powell
Street cable car line. To reverse their
direction, the cable cars are pushed onto
the unique turntable and swung around
manually by the motor man and the
conductor, much to the delight of the
riders and spectators.
There is no end to the interesting places
one may visit in San Francisco, the ferry
the library building, the churches and
colleges.
Or the tourist may prefer a leisurely
drive along the many scenic boulevards.
For the true adventurer, there is that
final thrill, a ride down the world's most
crooked streets. Eight hairpin turns in a
single block.
San Francisco, the cosmopolitan city,
queen of the Pacific, the city by the
Golden Gate,
Truly the city of many wonders.
you
Thank you.